Homework 0 - due 1/26/2022

Instructions:

You will submit: (1) a report (pdf file) that explains your answers for each problem. The report MUST contain the link to your Github repository to access the source code you have developed for this homework. Your report should contain your name, student ID, and homework number. (2) a second pdf file which contains both source codes, results, and plots you have developed and plotted for this homework. You can easily generate this pdf in Jupyter Lab or Jupyter Notebook (sample pdf provided on Canvas.). The pdf file name should contain your name, student ID, and homework number.
In your report, provide separate and clear responses for each problem. Make reasonable assumptions where necessary and clearly state them! Be sure to show all the work involved in deriving your answers! If you just give a final answer without explanation, you may not receive credit for that question.
You may discuss concepts with your classmates. This fosters group learning and improves the class’ progress. However, make sure to submit your own independent and individual solutions. 
For this homework you can use Google Colab, or your personal laptop or Desktop  machine. There is no need for GPU computing platforms. As we are not doing training.
 

Problem 1 (20pts):

Pass five random images (from the internet) to ResNet 101, and analyze the outcomes. Analyze and report top1 and top 5 accuracies across the five images. Report any anomaly or miss -classification you observe. Try to come with logical reasoning (educated guesses) for miss-prediction. Make sure to perform proper pre-processing and adjustment and normalization before passing the images. Make sure to include images in the package you submit.

 

Problem 2 (20pts):

Pass five random images containing horses (one and multiple houses) to ResnetGen network and analyze the outcomes. Make sure to include both input images and generated images in your report. Try to come with logical reasoning (educated guesses) for miss-generations. Make sure to perform proper pre-processing and adjustment and normalization before passing the images.

 

Problem 3 (20pts):

Ptflops is a great tool to calculate the computational complexity of algorithms (number of MACs, and model size). This script is designed to compute the theoretical number of multiply-add operations in convolutional neural networks. It also can compute the number of parameters and print the computational cost (Number of MACs) of a given network. Here is the link to the tool:

https://pypi.org/project/ptflops/ (Links to an external site.)

use Ptflops and report the number of MACs and models size for both Problem 1 and Problem 2 over the batch size of 1 (running only one image at a time). 

 

Problem 4 (40pts): 

The MobileNet v2 architecture is based on an inverted residual structure where the input and output of the residual block are thin bottleneck layers opposite to traditional residual models which use expanded representations in the input. MobileNet v2 uses lightweight depth-wise convolutions to filter features in the intermediate expansion layer. Additionally, non-linearities in the narrow layers were removed in order to maintain representational power.

The pre-trained model is part of torchvision. Here is the link to MobileNet v2:
https://pytorch.org/hub/pytorch_vision_mobilenet_v2/ (Links to an external site.)

 

Like problem 1, Analyze and report top1 and top 5 accuracies across the five images. Report any anomaly or miss -classification you observe. Try to come with logical reasoning (educated guesses) for miss-prediction. Make sure to perform proper pre-processing and adjustment and normalization before passing the images. Make sure to include images in the package you submit.

 

Like problem 3, use Ptflops and report the number of MACs and models size for both Problem 1 and Problem 2 over the batch size of 1 (running only one image at a time). 
